POSITIVE DESIGN QUIRKS
The following positive design quirks each enhance how the
design performs during a game.

ACCURATE WEAPON (VARIES)
A weapon is more accurate than normal: all Target Numbers for
that weapon receive a –1 modifier. The cost is 1 point per 5 points (or
fraction thereof) of maximum damage the weapon can inflict in a
single Damage Value grouping. If the “weapon” deals 0 damage (such
as TAG), the cost is 2 points. More than one weapon can receive this
quirk, but the cost for each must be paid.

ANTI-AIRCRAFT TARGETING (VARIES)
Some ’Mechs, like the Rifleman, have an advanced targeting
system that can accurately target airborne units. This includes ’Mechs
performing a combat drop (see p. 79), but not jumping ’Mechs. All
attacks against such units while airborne (not grounded) receive a
–2 Target Number modifier.
The cost is 1 point per 7 points (or fraction thereof) of maximum
damage that all the weapons mounted on the ’Mech can inflict
(excluding physical attack weapons). This bonus is only available
when the ’Mech itself is on the ground.

BARREL FIST (1 POINT)
The cost for this quirk must be paid for each arm it applies to,
and it can only be applied to arms with a lower arm actuator but no
hand actuator. An arm with this quirk does not apply the +1 Target
Number modifier for punching if it lacks a hand actuator.

BATTLE COMPUTER (5 POINTS)
The ’Mech is an advanced command unit equipped with a
powerful tactical battle computer that allows for more effective
command of a battle force; the Cyclops is a prime example. Each turn
one or more such ’Mechs are on the battlefield with a conscious
MechWarrior, their force receives a +2 modifier to all Initiative rolls.
This modifier is not cumulative with that of a Command
’Mech.

BATTLEFISTS (2 POINTS)
The Battlefists quirk applies only to ’Mechs that are equipped
with hand actuators. This quirk reflects ’Mechs that feature hands
which are better designed for melee combat as a consequence of
their unique configuration (such as the Awesome’s mace-like fist, or
the Pillager’s sharpened “knuckles”). This quirk is only paid for once,
even if the ’Mech has two fists. If the ’Mech has two hands, and this
quirk is only meant to apply to one of those hands, this must be
specified (the cost remains the same).
A ’Mech with Battlefists receives a –1 Target Number modifier
when making Punch attacks.

COMBAT COMPUTER (3 POINTS)
The ’Mech possesses an advanced combat computer, such
as those installed in the Stalker and Juliano. The computer aids
the MechWarrior in managing heat levels; each turn the ’Mech
will generate four points of heat less than normal (but never less
than zero).

COMMAND ’MECH (2 POINTS)
Some BattleMechs, such as the Atlas, BattleMaster, Black Knight,
King Crab, Marauder, Mongoose, and Wolverine are designed as
command ’Mechs. Each turn one or more such ’Mechs are on the
battlefield with a conscious MechWarrior, their force receives a +1
modifier to all Initiative rolls.
This modifier is not cumulative with a Battle Computer.

COMPACT ’MECH (1 POINT)
This Quirk describes a ’Mech that is particularly slim in stature,
such as the Jackalope. It enables the ’Mech to share a BattleMech
cubicle with another Compact ’Mech. It also allows a ’Mech
recovery vehicle to transport two Compact ’Mechs. In both cases,
the combined tonnage of the two ’Mechs cannot exceed relevant
tonnage limits.
The Compact ’Mech quirk only provides this bonus for
transportation purposes; Compact ’Mechs cannot share the same
space at the same time when undergoing maintenance or repairs.
This quirk can only be applied to ’Mechs that also possess
the Narrow/Low Profile quirk, and is further limited to ’Mechs of
medium weight (55 tons) or less.

COWL (4 POINTS)
BattleMechs such as the Cyclops have been outfitted with a
protective cowl that provides an additional 3 points of head armor.
However, attacks that originate along the row of hexes directly in
front of the cowled ’Mech ignore this additional armor.

DIRECTIONAL TORSO MOUNT
(2 OR 3 POINTS)
A well-known feature of the original Goliath, a Directional Torso
Mount acts as a somewhat more restrictive BattleMech shoulder
turret, allowing any weapons in the mount to shoot in either the
front arc or the rear arc, depending on the mount’s current facing.
The mount’s facing is set at the start of the game, and can be
changed at the same time torso twists are made. However, unlike
a torso twist, it does not reset at each End Phase: the arc chosen
remains until deliberately changed. The mount rotates with any
torso twist as normal. Each time a location with a Directional Torso Mount takes a
hit (Front or Rear), the player must roll 2D6. A result of 9+ means
the mount is destroyed and its weapon locked in its current arc, in
addition to the normal effects of the attack.
The 3-point version of this quirk is available only to quad
’Mechs. In this case, the mount operates as a full turret, capable of
rotating a full 360 degrees.
No weapon with location placement restrictions (such as a
heavy Gauss rifle) can be placed in a Directional Torso Mount.

DISTRACTING (1 POINT)
A ’Mech with the Distracting quirk is physically designed to
intimidate (or confuse) its opponent with its appearance. This
includes the fearsome visage of the Atlas BattleMech, but can also
include ’Mechs cosmetically designed to appear more heavily
armed or deadly than they truly are, such as the Arbiter.
A ’Mech with the Distracting quirk applies a +1 Special Source
modifier to any Morale Checks its opponents must make when using
the Morale rules (see pp. 179-180, TO:AR). If using the Demoralizer
Special Piloting Ability from Campaign Operations (see p. 74, CO),
the Distracting quirk reduces the Demoralizer’s psychological attack
Target Number modifier from +4 to +3.
This quirk may apply to a ’Mech in some periods but not others:
for example, the Mackie would almost certainly be Distracting upon
its debut, but would lose the quirk once the novelty wore off and
newer designs were introduced.

EASY TO MAINTAIN (1 POINT)
Some ’Mechs, such as the Thorn, are easier to maintain and
repair. All maintenance, repair, and replacement rolls made for a
’Mech with this quirk receive a –1 Target Number modifier.
This is an innate quality to the ’Mech, regardless of whether
enough spare parts are available to actually fix it. As such, the
Vindicator doesn’t gain this quirk just because its spare parts are
plentiful (and the Assassin has it despite the fact that its custom
spare parts are rare).

EASY TO PILOT (2 POINTS)
Training ’Mechs such as the Chameleon and Crockett are
designed to be easier for a rookie MechWarrior or pilot to operate.
A MechWarrior with a Piloting Skill higher than 3 will receive a
–1 Target Number modifier for Piloting Skill Rolls required as a result
of damage or terrain. More skilled MechWarriors receive no benefit.

EXTENDED TORSO TWIST (3 POINTS)
Unlike most ’Mechs, one with this quirk can twist its torso
much further. When torso twisting, the ’Mech can change its facing
by one or two hexsides. Quad ’Mechs normally cannot torso twist
at all. However, a quad ’Mech with this quirk can perform a normal
(not extended) torso twist.

FAST RELOAD (1 POINT)
BattleMechs such as the Hatchetman and Enforcer have weapons
that use large removable ammunition magazines, allowing them
to reload much faster than normal. This quirk can be assigned to
individual weapons, locations on a ’Mech (such as the right torso), or
the entire ’Mech. Affected weapons can reload in half the normal time.
Regardless of the option chosen, the cost for this quirk is the same.

FINE MANIPULATORS (0 POINTS)
Though ’Mechs generally rely on hand actuators for any manual
work, some units, such as the Jupiter, feature manipulators otherwise
more commonly found on vehicles for delicate work.
A ’Mech with this quirk may mount up to one Manipulator (see
p. 245, TM) in each side torso and/or arm location. These do not
follow the normal construction rules and are weight free; the exact
number must be specified.

GOOD REPUTATION (0 POINTS)
Whether due to clever marketing, use by an iconic MechWarrior,
or proven capabilities, some ’Mechs are extremely popular. Such
’Mechs are worth a premium on the open market, as buyer demand
means that acquiring one at its base price is almost impossible. For
each level of this quirk, the ’Mech is worth 10% more C-bills than
normal. This quirk is not worth points because it is not, strictly
speaking, a bonus to the ’Mech.
Note that in some eras and/or locations, such as during the
late Third Succession War period, ’Mechs as a whole are so rare
that all may be considered to have the 1 point version of this quirk.
Furthermore, this quirk is not applicable to Clan machines, as the
Clans do not really have a secondary ’Mech market and Inner Sphere
customers will gladly pay inflated prices to acquire Clan ’Mechs
regardless of their reputation.

HYPER-EXTENDING ACTUATORS
(1 POINT)
The arm actuators of ’Mechs like the Quickdraw can bend much
further than normal. Even if it has lower arm and/or hand actuators,
it can still flip arms to fire all arm-mounted weapons into its rear arc.

IMPROVED COMMUNICATIONS
(1 POINT)
The ’Mech has an exceptionally powerful communications suite.
The ’Mech automatically ignores the first level of ghost targets (see
p. 100, TO:AR) used against it. Additionally, it can always attempt a
BattleMech Satellite uplink (see p. 162, TO:AR) without being forced
to give up its movement and combat actions.

IMPROVED COOLING JACKET (1 POINT)
One weapon’s design incorporates a highly effective cooling
jacket. When fired, this weapon generates 1 point less heat (never
less than 1 point). More than one weapon can have this positive
quirk, but the cost for each must be paid.

IMPROVED LIFE SUPPORT (1 POINT)
When determining damage to the MechWarrior or pilot as a
result of heat following a life support critical hit, treat the ’Mech’s
heat level as being 5 points lower (an example of this is the Shadow
Hawk). This quirk also doubles the cockpit’s standard life support
time, from four days to eight.

IMPROVED SENSORS (3 POINTS)
A ’Mech with this quirk is treated as if it has an active probe
(range 4 for Inner Sphere ’Mechs, range 5 for Clan ’Mechs). If it is
equipped with an actual active probe, instead add 2 to that active
probe’s range.

IMPROVED TARGETING
(3:SHORT, 4:MEDIUM, OR 5:LONG
POINTS)
The ’Mech has advanced targeting capabilities in one range
bracket. The quirk can be applied up to three times, but can be
taken only once per range bracket. The cost of the quirk varies with
the range bracket chosen. All ranged attack Target Numbers at the
selected range bracket receive a –1 modifier.
A ’Mech with this quirk cannot take Improved Targeting for
the Extreme range bracket, nor can this quirk be combined with
Variable Range Targeting.

JETTISON-CAPABLE WEAPON
(1 POINT)
A ’Mech can be equipped with mounted weapons that can
be jettisoned in combat and—if recovered—remounted on that
’Mech with ease. This feature can be seen in early Star League-era
attempts to develop handheld weapon mounts, such as on the
BattleMaster, Griffin, Wolverine, and Phoenix Hawk.
The quirk is bought for a single weapon; a ’Mech can carry a
maximum of two jettison-capable weapons, paying the quirk cost
each time. It is assumed that any official variant replacing a jettisoncapable weapon with another weapon in the same location also
uses a jettison-capable weapon, though a gamemaster may rule
that variants based on field refits or low-tech conditions do not
benefit. No Handheld Weapon (see pp. 127-128, TO:AUE) or item
using pod technology may benefit from this quirk, though fixed
weapons on an OmniMech may be jettison-capable.
A jettison-capable weapon may be dropped using the
Dumping Ammunition rules (see p. 58), except no risk of hull
breaches is created, and no risk of an explosion if a ’Mech jettisoning
its weapons is struck from the rear. Jettisoning an ammunitiondependent weapon does not also jettison its ammunition. Treat any
critical slots for a jettison-capable weapon as a Roll Again result if
they are struck after the weapon is jettisoned.
In campaign play the location of a jettisoned weapon should
be tracked, as it can be remounted on the ’Mech later using the
same rules and time spent as an ammunition reload. A jettisoned
weapon may be used by any ’Mech that is a variant of the ’Mech the
weapon was originally designed for, as long as the variant features
that exact weapon and in the exact same location.

MODULAR WEAPONS (1 POINT)
Though lacking the flexibility of an OmniMech, a ’Mech with
Modular Weapons such as the O-Bakemono or Mercury can be
repaired or customized more easily. Equipment can be replaced in
half the normal time (though repairs in-place take the usual amount
of time). When using the Customization rules (see p. 188, CO), half
the time is required.
On some ’Mechs, only certain weapons or equipment are
modular. In this case, the specific gear with the modular quality
must be noted, but this does not reduce the quirk’s cost.

MULTI-TRAC (2 POINTS)
A ’Mech with this quirk can track multiple targets and may
attack any number of targets in its front and arm firing arcs in the
same turn without adding the secondary-target modifier. Secondary
targets in the rear arc are treated as normal.

NARROW/LOW PROFILE (3 POINTS)
Designs such as the UrbanMech, Vulcan, and Lancelot have a
narrow or low profile that makes them harder to hit at range.
If the Margin of Success for a weapon attack made against a
narrow/low profile ’Mech is 0 or 1, the hit is considered a glancing
blow. For example, if you need to roll a 9 or better to hit the target,
a result of 10 would be a glancing blow.
A glancing blow inflicts half the normal damage (rounded
down); for weapons that roll on the Cluster Hits Table, instead apply
a –4 modifier to the Cluster roll result (with a minimum result of 2).
Additionally, apply a –2 modifier when rolling on the Determining
Critical Hits Table any time a glancing blow yields the possibility of
a critical hit; if using the Advanced Determining Critical Hits rule (see
p. 83, TO:AR), apply a –4 modifier instead.
This quirk has no effect versus non-weapon attacks, such as
falls or physical attacks. It also has no effect versus all-or-nothing
weapon attacks, such as Streak missile launchers.
If using the Linking Weapons rule (see p. 83, TO:AR), the entire
linked group is considered a glancing blow.
Damage Reduction: If also using the Glancing Blow rule (see
p. 78, TO:AR), the effects stack (1/4 damage is dealt). Any subtractive
damage reduction effects (such as ferro-lamellor armor) are applied
after all other damage reduction effects.

NIMBLE JUMPER (3 POINTS)
Jump jets are brute-force thrusters designed only to transport
a ’Mech directly from point A to point B. Some ’Mechs, however,
such as the Spider, are especially nimble when jumping. When a
’Mech with this quirk jumps, it need not follow the most direct
path to its target hex. Instead, it may deviate from that path by
up to one hex of its controller’s choice (assuming the ’Mech has
the Jumping MP required, of course; additional heat for such a
jump is generated as normal for the jump jet type in use). For
example, a jump that would normally cover six hexes can instead
cover up to seven.
If a ’Mech deviates with its jump in this fashion, attacks against
it that turn receive an additional +1 target movement modifier (a
total of +2 for jumping, instead of the normal +1; the extra hex
travelled is also factored into its TMM). However, the deviating
’Mech's attacker movement modifier also increases, from +3 to +4.
This quirk can only be taken by light or medium ’Mechs, and
only for those that have at least as many Jumping MP as they do
Walking MP.

OVERHEAD ARMS (2 POINTS)
If it is standing and has line of sight to its target, a ’Mech with
Overhead Arms treats its arm-mounted weapons as one level higher
when determining the effects of terrain.
For example, a standing Dasher on Level 0 terrain would be
Level 2 for LOS purposes as normal, but would treat attacks from
its arm-mounted weapons as coming from Level 3. This does not
allow the ’Mech to fire over Level 2 hexes directly in front of it (since
the ’Mech must already have line of sight for the Overhead Arms to
function), but it would ignore partial cover for targets at the same
level (Level 2, in our example) unless the target was receiving it
from water.
A ’Mech with Overhead Arms receives a +2 Target Number
modifier to its punch and arm-mounted physical weapon attacks.
This quirk cannot be combined with the Low-Mounted Arms
quirk, or taken by any ’Mech that either does not have arms, or lacks
any form of direct-fire ranged weaponry in said arms (excepting
OmniMechs).

PROTECTED ACTUATORS (1 POINT)
Armor protection around the actuators is more effective,
making a ’Mech with this quirk more resistant to Leg and Swarm
attacks by infantry. The Target Numbers for such attacks receive a
+1 modifier.

REINFORCED LEGS (1 POINT)
Designed for executing the dreaded “Death From Above”
attack, some ’Mechs (the Highlander, for example) suffer half the
normal damage to the legs when performing Death From Above
successfully.

RUGGED (1 OR 2 POINTS)
Some ’Mechs are extremely reliable, reducing the frequency
with which they require maintenance. The cost is 1 point if the
’Mech can go for two times as long between maintenance periods
as normal, and 2 points if it can go up to three times as long. See
Campaign Operations, page 191, for details on maintenance

SEARCHLIGHT (0 POINTS)
’Mechs such as the Warhammer, Loki, Guillotine, Defiance and
Rifleman are equipped with mounted searchlights (see p. 62).
Each time a searchlight-equipped ’Mech takes a hit in any torso
location (Front or Rear), the player must roll 2D6 to determine if the
searchlight is destroyed. A result of 7+ means the searchlight is
destroyed, in addition to the normal effects of the attack.

STABILIZED WEAPON (VARIES)
Some weapons, such as the center torso and head lasers of the
Mongoose, are better cushioned against or otherwise compensated
for the increased inaccuracy caused by moving at high speeds. If the
’Mech runs, all Target Numbers for that weapon receive a –1 modifier.
The cost is 1 point per 7 points (or fraction thereof) of maximum
damage the weapon can inflict in a single Damage Value grouping.
If the “weapon” deals 0 damage (such as TAG), the cost is 1 point.
More than one weapon can receive this positive quirk, but the cost
for each must be paid.

STABLE (2 POINTS)
’Mech designs such as the Dragon are exceptionally stable,
receiving a –1 Target Number modifier when forced to make a
Piloting Skill Roll as a result of a physical attack.

UBIQUITOUS (1 POINT)
Some ’Mechs, such as the Archer, Wasp, and Locust, have been
in production for literally centuries, with thousands or even tens of
thousands produced in that time across multiple nations. For other
’Mechs, the manufacturer has gone to exceptional lengths to ensure
that parts are readily available, such as mass producing them or using
parts from other, more common machines. Whatever the case, when
attempting to locate replacement parts for these ’Mechs, apply a –2
Target Number modifier.
This quirk does not cross between the Clans and the Inner
Sphere unless bought twice. For example, a ’Mech Ubiquitous
amongst the Clans is not automatically Ubiquitous in the Inner
Sphere, and vice versa.

VARIABLE RANGE TARGETING (VARIES)
The ’Mech’s targeting system allows it to launch more
accurate attacks at either long or short range, at the expense
of reduced accuracy at other ranges. During a turn’s End Phase,
the controlling player must designate whether this improved
targeting feature will be active at long or short range the next
turn. All weapon attacks at the designated range receive a –1
Target Number modifier, but all weapon attacks at the other
range receive a +1 Target Number modifier (medium range
remains unmodified).
The cost is 1 point per 5 points (or fraction thereof) maximum
damage that all the weapons mounted on the ’Mech can inflict
(excluding physical attack weapons). This quirk cannot be combined
with Improved Targeting.

VESTIGIAL HANDS (0 POINTS)
A ’Mech with vestigial hands lacks manipulators substantial enough
for most game purposes, and does not have hand actuator critical hit
slots. However, a ’Mech with vestigial hands may lift and drop items (see
Lifting Items (Simplified), p. 21) if a scenario objective requires it.

NEGATIVE DESIGN QUIRKS
The following negative design quirks each contain a rule
detrimental to how the design performs during a game, whether
during movement, in combat, when eliminating heat and so on.
Some of these quirks, such as Sensor Ghosts, are quite rare
or even unheard of on standard examples of any BattleMech.
These sorts of quirks are instead intended to allow players to add
personality to worn and/or damaged machines.

AMMUNITION FEED PROBLEM
(1 POINT)
The ammunition feed for one ammunition-using component
has a tendency to jam at inconvenient moments. On an unmodified
attack roll of 2 with such a weapon, roll 2D6. On a result of 10+, the
weapon jams and cannot be fired again in this battle. On a roll of
12, the new round of ammunition will explode in the weapon for
normal damage. Per normal rules, Gauss weapon ammunition will
not explode, but the weapon itself does.

BAD REPUTATION (1 POINT)
While perfectly sound, this ’Mech has acquired a bad reputation
(for example, the Blackjack during the Succession Wars). As a result,
it is worth only half the normal resale value, unless ’Mechs are
particularly rare for a given era and/or location (for example, in the
late Third Succession War era, ’Mechs are remarkably hard to come
by, and few would turn up their nose at even the most unpopular
of machines).
Designs that are second-line or merely somewhat unpopular
(such as the Watchman or UrbanMech) should likely not receive this
quirk. Additionally, a ’Mech may have a Bad Reputation at one point
in its career, but lose it later (such as the Battle Hawk).
The Clans do not really have the same sort of economic model
when it comes to BattleMechs. Instead, if a Clan ’Mech has the Bad
Reputation quirk and if the optional Clan Honor rules are in effect
(see p. 273, TW), the MechWarrior begins the battle with 1 dezgra
point. The ’Mech will still fetch its full value if ever sold on an Inner
Sphere market.
Note that when buying a ’Mech with a Bad Reputation, players
generally still must pay its full price.

COOLING SYSTEM FLAWS (3 POINTS)
A flaw in the design can result in the ’Mech generating excess
heat. Whenever the ’Mech executes or receives a physical attack,
falls, or is forced to make a Piloting Skill Roll because it received 20
points or more damage, roll 2D6. On a result of 10+ the ’Mech will
generate 5 points more heat each turn for the rest of the battle. This
can only occur once a battle.

CRAMPED COCKPIT (2 POINTS)
The poorly-designed cockpits of ’Mechs like the Wolverine and
Stinger are very cramped. The ’Mech receives a +1 Piloting Skill Roll
modifier. This quirk cannot be applied to ’Mechs with a Small Cockpit.

DIFFICULT EJECTION (1 POINT)
Certain designs have flaws in their emergency escape systems
detrimental to a MechWarrior’s health. If the MechWarrior fails a
Piloting Skill Roll when ejecting, they suffer an additional point of
damage (in addition to the standard damage taken).

DIFFICULT TO MAINTAIN (1 POINT)
Some ’Mechs are harder to maintain and repair. All repair
or replacement rolls made for this ’Mech receive a +1 Target
Number modifier.

EM INTERFERENCE (1 OR 2 POINTS)
An energy weapon is insufficiently shielded and causes
interference with other delicate electronics. The turn after the
weapon has been fired, the following equipment aboard the ’Mech
will not function: any ECM, any Active Probe, Artemis IV FCS, Artemis
V FCS, Blue Shield PFD, any C3, Chameleon LPS, Cockpit Command
Console, Electronic Warfare Equipment, MASC, MRM FCS, Narc (and
iNarc), Null Signature System, Stealth Armor, Streak Launchers,
Supercharger, Targeting Computer, and Void Signature System.
Alternatively, this quirk can be purchased for the ’Mech itself,
in which case the problem occurs whenever any energy weapon
on the ’Mech is fired. The cost for this version of the quirk is 2
points, but can only be purchased if the ’Mech has more than one
energy weapon.

EXPOSED ACTUATORS (1 POINT)
The actuators on some designs (such as the Commando) are
poorly protected and more vulnerable to the effects of Swarm and
Leg attacks by infantry. The Target Numbers for such attacks receive
a –1 modifier.

EXPOSED WEAPON LINKAGE (2 POINTS)
Some designs such as the Cygnus have the mechanics of a
weapon dangerously exposed. When a location that holds such a
weapon is hit, roll 2D6. On a roll of 10+, that weapon is unable to
fire for the remainder of the game.
This quirk can be taken only once and only for a single weapon
type, and affects all weapons of that type on the ’Mech (for example,
all AC/20s, all ER PPCs).

HARD TO PILOT (2 POINTS)
This ’Mech is hard to operate; MechWarriors receive a +1 Target
Number modifier to all Piloting Skill Rolls.

ILLEGAL DESIGN (0 POINTS)
’Mechs designed with this quirk do not follow the existing
construction rules for some reason, achieving effects that are not
normally allowed in game-play, and which can fail spectacularly at
any moment. (Note: The total weight and critical space of all components must still fit within the design’s tonnage and critical space.)
If employed, the opposing player may roll 2D6 to determine if
the ’Mech with this quirk suffers a catastrophic failure once every
6 turns of combat. On a result of 6 or higher, such catastrophic
failure occurs in 1D6 of the ’Mech’s hit locations (using the Front/
Back Hit Locations Table). A Critical Hit check is then made for
each failure location determined, applying a +4 modifier to the
roll result. On any modified roll result of 13+, the location suffers
complete collapse if it is an arm, leg, head, wing, main gun, or turret.
This will destroy all items within (and any explosive components
checks should be made as appropriate for location destruction). If
the affected location is none of the above, it suffers 4 critical hits,
determined as normal.
Illegal ’Mechs suffer an additional +4 Target Number modifier
to repair or replace any damaged or destroyed components, and
double all repair and maintenance times for work performed
on them. If an Illegal ’Mech repair fails, the item gains the Nonfunctional quirk as well.
Finally, because they are technically failures at the time of their
production, Illegal ’Mechs should also receive the Obsolete quirk
(see p. 88), with the year of their obsolescence determined to be
the same as their year of introduction.

INACCURATE WEAPON (VARIES)
Being of poor design, a weapon is less accurate than normal
and receives a +1 Target Number modifier. The value is 1 point per
5 points (or fraction thereof) of maximum damage the weapon can
inflict in a single Damage Value grouping.
More than one weapon can receive this quirk.

LOW-MOUNTED ARMS (2 POINTS)
’Mechs equipped with extremely low-mounted arms—such as the
Dark Crow—have mounted their arms far too low to take advantage of
the ’Mech’s height advantage. This quirk cannot be combined with the
Overhead Arms quirk, nor can it be taken by any ’Mech that either does
not have arms, or lacks any form of weaponry in its arms.
A ’Mech with Low-Mounted Arms fires its arm-mounted
weapons as if they are actually mounted in the ’Mech’s legs, even
though these arms still rotate with the torso position. As a result,
these weapons may be blocked from firing by partial cover such as
low hills and buildings. By the same token, attacks against ’Mech
with Low-Mounted Arms that pass over partial cover cannot strike
the ’Mech’s arms either, and instead will strike the covering terrain.

NO/MINIMAL ARMS (2 POINTS)
Some ’Mechs effectively have no arms, such as the Stalker and
Locust, or arms that are totally ineffective in aiding a fallen ’Mech in
regaining its feet. When making a Piloting Skill Roll to stand up, such
’Mechs receive a +2 Target Number modifier; this is not cumulative
with the Attempting to Stand optional rules (see p. 22, TO:AR). In
addition, the ’Mech cannot make physical attacks with its arms.

NO COOLING JACKET (2 POINTS)
A weapon’s design excludes the standard cooling jacket. As a
result, it generates 2 extra points of heat when fired.

NO EJECTION SYSTEM (2 POINTS)
Some ’Mechs—notably the Spider—lack an emergency escape
system. The MechWarrior can never eject and thus cannot use the
Ejection (Simplified) rules (see p. 81).

NON-FUNCTIONAL ITEM (5 POINTS)
A ’Mech with this quirk has one or more components or pieces
of equipment that simply do not work. No amount of repairs or
replacement will correct this issue; the ’Mech must be redesigned
from the ground up to solve the problem.
A ’Mech can have multiple Non-functional quirks, but each
must be assigned to the specifically non-operational components
they possess.

NON-STANDARD PARTS (1 POINT)
Constructed with non-standard components—such as
the Clint—it is more difficult to source parts for this ’Mech.
When attempting to locate replacement parts, add +2 to the
Target Number.

OBSOLETE (4 POINTS)
An Obsolete ’Mech is one built using technological and/or
construction standards that have been completely abandoned, such
as any Primitive ’Mech from the Star League era until the Jihad. Though
still serviceable—and maybe even effective—an obsolete ’Mech is
extremely difficult to maintain after its parts sources go silent, forcing
technicians to resort to jury-rigging and hand-machining even the
most basic structural parts and electronics to keep it battle worthy.
A ’Mech with the Obsolete quirk cannot have any variants in
active production, and must note the year in which its production
ceased as part of the quirk. After that, the ’Mech will become
increasingly hard to maintain, and its resale price will drop (for
anyone except antique collectors, that is). To reflect this, for every
15 years after production of an obsolete ’Mech ceased, any rolls to
repair or replace equipment on the ’Mech—or to even locate said
parts—will suffer a +1 Target Number increase (to a maximum of +5).
In addition, for every 20 years after production of an obsolete ’Mech
ceased, the resale cost (but not the purchase cost) will decrease by
10 percent (to a minimum of 50 percent).
A ’Mech that somehow comes back into production after
becoming obsolete automatically negates this quirk 10 years after
returning to production. Additionally, some ’Mechs may have parts
manufactured for them even if the chassis themselves are out of
production, and thus would not qualify for this quirk. Note that an
obsolete ’Mech may still receive additional modifiers for other quirks
such as Difficult to Maintain, Easy to Maintain, Non-Standard Parts,
and Ubiquitous.

OVERSIZED (2 POINTS)
The Oversized quirk cannot be combined with the Narrow/Low
Profile quirk, and is further limited to ’Mechs of heavy weight (60
tons) and larger. This quirk describes a ’Mech that has been built
physically larger than the norm, such as the Mackie or Scylla.
Any Piloting Skill Rolls required of an Oversized ’Mech to avoid
damage when passing through buildings suffer a +1 Target Number
modifier. Furthermore, they find it harder to use covering terrain
effectively: an Oversized ’Mech never receives the +1 Target Number
modifier for partial cover when being attacked.

POOR COOLING JACKET (1 POINT)
A weapon has a meager or badly designed cooling jacket. As
a result, it generates 1 more point of heat than normal when fired.

POOR LIFE SUPPORT (1 POINT)
When determining damage to the MechWarrior or pilot as a
result of heat following a life support critical hit, treat the ’Mech’s heat
level as being 5 points higher. This quirk also reduces the cockpit’s
standard life support time from four days to two.

POOR PERFORMANCE (3 POINTS)
The ’Mech cannot reach maximum speed immediately. It must
spend one turn expending MP equal to its Walking speed before it
can use MP up to its Running speed the following turn.

POOR SEALING (2 POINTS)
A ’Mech with the Poor Sealing quirk suffers from imperfections
in its structural and armor design that make it more susceptible to
leaks and other failures in hostile environments. In any situation
where a ’Mech must check for hull breaches and/or flooding (such
as suffering damage while operating in vacuum, toxic environments
and underwater), this quirk adds a +2 modifier to the roll when
making a hull breach check (see p. 65). If the ’Mech would otherwise
not be susceptible to hull breaches, consider it to have a base hull
breach TN of 12 before applying this modifier.
In addition to the above, a ’Mech with Poor Sealing must also
make a hull breach check when first entering a hostile environment
(such as vacuum or toxic atmospheres, when entering water, or
when becoming completely submerged in water). Failure will
result in a flood to a random location that is exposed to the hostile
environment (use the appropriate Front Locations Table to determine
the affected area).

POOR TARGETING (2 POINTS)
The ’Mech has poor targeting capabilities in one range bracket.
This quirk can be applied more than once, but can be taken only once
per range bracket. All ranged attacks at the selected range bracket
receive a +1 Target Number modifier.
A ’Mech cannot take Poor Targeting for Extreme Range.

POOR WORKMANSHIP (1 POINT)
Not all manufacturers are as dedicated to producing quality
products. This ’Mech is one level of unit quality (see p. 189, CO) lower
than normal. In addition, all rolls for critical damage are modified by
+1, making critical hits more likely. Results of 13 are treated as 12
(except if using Advanced Determining Critical Hits, in which case do
not modify down; see p. 72, TO:AR).

PROTOTYPE (2 POINTS)
The ’Mech is a prototype and still has some issues. Its systems
are less resilient and lack the redundancy that will be incorporated
into the production model. All rolls for critical damage are modified
by +2, making critical hits much more likely. Results of 13 or over are
treated as 12 (except if using Advanced Determining Critical Hits, in
which case do not modify down; see p. 72, TO:AR).
Even if brand new, designs that have just entered service have
all passed the prototype stage and so likely do not qualify for this
quirk. ’Mechs found in the Experimental Technical Readout series of
products would make good candidates.

RAMSHACKLE (3 POINTS)
Decades or even centuries of hard service and substandard
maintenance have led to an unpredictable machine patched
together with bailing wire and prayers.
The ’Mech’s controller rolls 1D6 at the start of the battle. The
result indicates what negative quirk, if any, applies to that ’Mech
for the duration of the battle: Sensor Ghosts (1), EM Interference
(entire ’Mech) (2), Hard to Pilot (3), Cooling System Flaws (4), Poor
Performance (5), or no negative result (6).

SENSOR GHOSTS (3 POINTS)
The ’Mech’s sensor suite projects ghost images, causing
significant targeting problems. All ranged attacks receive a +1 Target
Number modifier.

SLOW TRAVERSE (1 POINT)
The ’Mech has an underpowered turret traverse mechanism.
Any turret (or 3-point Directional Torso Mount) on the ’Mech may
only rotate one hexside in a turn.

STATIC AMMO FEED (1 POINT)
Weapons with the Static Ammo Feed quirk use a very crude
or minimized form of ammunition feed that renders the weapon
incapable of switching between multiple ammunition bins. It is
most commonly seen in ’Mechs that feature exposed ammunition
feeds, such as the Blade or the Cygnus, and thus often occurs in
conjunction with the Exposed Weapon Linkage quirk.
The Static Ammo Feed quirk must be taken for each
affected weapon type the ’Mech carries, though it can cover
multiple weapons of that type at the same time. Thus, a ’Mech
with two Autocannon/10s and two Autocannon/5s would
need two Static Ammo Quirks to account for all four weapons
having this issue, if desired—one for the AC/10s and the other
for the AC/5s. This quick cannot be applied to weapons without
switchable ammunition.
All ammunition carried for a weapon with Static Ammo Feed
must be of the same type. This is true even if the weapon is of the
Switchable Ammo (S) Type.

UNBALANCED (1 POINT)
The ’Mech’s design (one notorious example is the Javelin) is
unbalanced. Treat this quirk as a +1 Target Number modifier for
Piloting Skill Rolls made whenever the ‘Mech enters a hex requiring
a PSR due to a building type or planetary condition (i.e. Terrain Type,
Terrain Modification, and so on).

WEAK HEAD ARMOR (VARIES)
The value of this quirk is equal to the number of armor points
effectively lost; for example, a ’Mech with 9 points of head armor
but using a 4-point version of this quirk effectively has only 5
armor points.

WEAK LEGS (1 POINT)
This ’Mech’s legs were never designed to take the stresses
involved in physical attacks. If the ’Mech executes a Death From
Above attack, roll on the Determining Critical Hits Table for each
of its legs. If it is kicked in a leg, roll on the table for the leg that was
kicked. In both cases, the critical check occurs even if the leg armor
was not breached.